# Most People Are Normal

My general experience with the Culture War has been that I have a bunch of friends and family who I know are perfectly normal sane common-sense people, but spout completely insane nonsense that they got from the media (or from their friends or family or teachers or coworkers or whoever, who got it from the media). And they're generally convinced that half the country is evil or stupid. (I have friends on both sides, and they both think the other side is evil or stupid.)

The half of the country that makes up "the other side" is not stupid or evil. They're normal decent people. Misinformed, maybe.

This isn't a centrist take. I've got my own opinions on which side is less misinformed. But my point here is that most people are normal. We are simply *not* in a situation where half the country is evil or stupid; we're in a situation where the two political factions are locked in a struggle-to-the-death even though most of us are ordinary people with common-sense views and we could actually get along just fine if the media environment wasn't full of extremely loud people telling us that half the country is evil or stupid.

This site is an attempt to create [bridges](./hidden-majority-patterns.md) between the sane people on both sides: "huh, weird, here's a popular statement signed by a bunch of people on The Other Side, and it's actually weirdly reasonable... I'm not gonna sign *that* one exactly, but I'll sign this other one that's more congruent with My Side, and the two statements actually have some common ground." There's an optional [AI mediator](./mediator.md) that might help craft patterns of statements like that. There's also an optional crowdfunding system for identifying and monetizing social-media posts that are written in a way that doesn't piss off the other side. But basically the point is to help the quiet middle find each other and realize that we'd be better off allying with each other rather than letting the nutty loud extremists polarize us.
